== Developer FAQ ==

Common questions and answers for new developers.

=== Questions ===

==== Q. I'm new, how do I get started? ====

First, you'll need to get your hands on the [[Source Code|source code]], and then you can [[Compiling|compile]] it. If you're having any problems, then please use the [https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/synergy-dev developer mailing list]. If you're wondering what you can work on, check out what [https://github.com/synergy/synergy/issues needs fixing] on our issue tracker. Or maybe you feel like testing some [https://github.com/synergy/synergy/pulls/ pull requests]? Before sending us a [[Patches|patch]], read our [[Hacking]] guide.

==== Q. How do input events reach the client? ====

The [[Diagrams|event lifecycle diagram]] demonstrates how a mouse down event gets from the server to the client.

==== Q. How do I start synergys and synergyc directly with Visual Studio? ====

Right click either the synergys or synergyc projects, and select Properties. Click Debugging, and add the following to the Command Arguments textbox:

*for synergys:*

<pre>
--no-daemon --debug DEBUG1 --name my-computer-1 --address :24800
</pre>

Replace 'my-computer-1' with your computer name.

*for synergyc:*

<pre>
--no-daemon --debug DEBUG1 my-computer-1
</pre>

Replace 'my-computer-1' with your server's hostname.

==== Q. How do I install the Windows service with a non-default debugging level? ====

From the Windows config GUI, select the debug level (on the main screen) before installing the service. This stores the command line arguments in the Windows registry - to change the debug level after service is installed, uninstall the service, select new log level and reinstall service.

==== Q. What is your code style guide? ====

This can be found in [[Code Style]].

==== Q. How do I build the new GUI in 1.4? ====

You'll need to download Qt Creator or the SDK. See the [[Compiling]] for links to required versions.

==== Q. Why do I get an XTest error when compiling on Ubuntu? ====

Ensure that the libXtst-dev or libXtst-devel package is installed.

* Discussion: [http://groups.google.com/group/synergy-plus/browse_thread/thread/75f1d29106a90b04/ee67a56d3240ed08?lnk=gst&q=xtest#ee67a56d3240ed08 XTest library]
* Discussion: [http://groups.google.com/group/synergy-plus/browse_thread/thread/97b7f2cacd5a4c3/3875900c14f136c0?lnk=gst&q=xtest#3875900c14f136c0 configure: error: You must have the XTest library to build synergy]

==== Q. How do I submit patches? ====

Simply run <code>svn diff > foobar.patch</code> and submit by attaching to a [http://spit.synergy-foss.org/support/ new issue]. Once you submit your patch, we will review the patch and commit to the repository.

==== Q. How do I make emacs use your indentation style? ====

You could add this to the end of your <code>.emacs</code> file.

<pre>
; Visual Studio like indentation
;; Turn on tabs
(setq indent-tabs-mode t)
(setq-default indent-tabs-mode t)

;; Bind the TAB key 
(global-set-key (kbd "TAB") 'self-insert-command)

;; Set the tab width
(setq default-tab-width 4)
(setq tab-width 4)
(setq c-basic-indent 4)

; make python tabs 4 chars wide
(add-hook 'python-mode-hook
	  (lambda ()
	    (setq indent-tabs-mode t)
	    (setq tab-width 4)
	    (setq python-indent 4)))
</pre>

This will make your indentation style similar to that in Visual Studio.

==== Q. How do I make vim use your style guidelines? ====

There is a .lvimrc included in the source code. To use it install [http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=441 Vim script 411]

==== Q. What is the <code>ARCH</code> macro for? ====

The <code>ARCH</code> macro is defined in <code>lib/arch/CArch.h</code> and accesses a static singleton pointer for the architecture tools.

For example, <code>ARCH->addrToString(CArchNetAddress)</code> will convert an address instance to an IP address as type std::string.

To use the ARCH macro, <code>#include "CArch.h"</code>
