= Running Synergy on OSX via plist =
Here we create a shell script and a property list file (plist), and activate the plist using the launchctl command-line tool.

The shell script runs the synergyc Unix executable, telling it to connect to a laboratory workstation.  The property list file '''[please briefly explain what the plist file does here]'''.  

== Make a Shell Script ==
First make a little bash script or whatever to contain your synergy calls..

For example, I put mine in <code>~/.scripts/synergyscript.sh</code>

Here's what my script looks like:
<pre>
#!/bin/bash

## Synergy client, connecting to Lab workstation
/Applications/Synergy.app/Contents/MacOS/synergyc -f -d FATAL -n Intrepid 192.168.1.102
</pre>

Here I'm telling the synergy client I'm running to announce my machine's name is ''Intrepid'' and I'm getting to to connect to the ip ''192.168.1.102''.

I used this format so that I might later add additional separate instances of synergy, as this was on a laptop that moves around.

Then make sure you make your script executable: <pre>chmod +x ~/.scripts/synergyscript.sh</pre>

''does it need to be made executable?  we don't need that to run it manually.  Does launchctl or the plist require it?''

Run the script manually to confirm it works: <pre>~/.scripts/synergyscript.sh</pre>

If it works, you should see '''[please describe that here]'''.  If it doesn't work, you might see '''[please describe]'''.  In that case, try '''[please describe]'''.  

== Create the corresponding plist file ==
I created my plist file under <tt>~/Library/LaunchAgents/ca.dawning.scripts.osx.synergy.plist</tt>

It contains:
<pre>
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC -//Apple Computer//DTD PLIST 1.0//EN http://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd >
<plist version="1.0">
  <dict>
    <key>Label</key>
    <string>ca.dawning.scripts.osx.synergy</string>
    <key>Program</key>
    <string>/Users/j/.scripts/synergyscript.sh</string>
    <key>KeepAlive</key>
    <true/>
  </dict>
</plist>
</pre>

== Activate your plist with launchctl ==
<pre>
launchctl load ~/Library/LaunchAgents/ca.dawning.scripts.osx.synergy.plist
</pre>

To unload it, just swap that ''load'' above with ''unload''.

Using a Mac OS X 10.6.8 server with synergys 1.4.12 and a Windows 7 SP1 client with synergyc.exe 1.4.12

== OS X Server ==
Create a config file ~/Library/Synergy/synergy.conf (or where ever) with the following contents:
<pre>
section: screens
	win:
		alt = super
		super = alt
		halfDuplexCapsLock = false
		halfDuplexNumLock = false
		halfDuplexScrollLock = false
		xtestIsXineramaUnaware = false
		switchCorners = none +top-right +bottom-right 
		switchCornerSize = 0
	osx:
		halfDuplexCapsLock = false
		halfDuplexNumLock = false
		halfDuplexScrollLock = false
		xtestIsXineramaUnaware = false
		switchCorners = none 
		switchCornerSize = 0
end

section: aliases
end

section: links
	win:
		right = osx
	osx:
		left = win
end

section: options
	relativeMouseMoves = false
	screenSaverSync = true
	win32KeepForeground = false
	switchCorners = none +top-left +bottom-left 
	switchCornerSize = 32
end
</pre>

Create a file ~/bin/initsynergy.command with the following contents:
 #!/bin/bash
 
 # Hides tray icon. set to 0 to have it show again.
 defaults write /Applications/Synergy.app/Contents/Info LSUIElement 1
 
 /Applications/Synergy.app/Contents/MacOS/synergys --crypto-pass YOURCRYPTOPASSWORD --crypto-mode gcm --config ~/Library/Synergy/synergy.conf -n osx -l /var/log/synergy.log

Make sure you:
 sudo touch /var/log/synergy.log
 sudo chown YOUROSXUSERNAME /var/log/synergy.log

Add ~/bin/initsynergy.command to your account's Login Items in System Preferences -> Accounts -> Login Items

== Windows 7 ==
Install the client as a service. And go through the normal setup procedure. In my case I found that the crypto password I entered in the setup wizard was not used in the registry entry to double check that setting here:
 HKLM\SOFTWARE\Synergy\Command = C:/Program Files/Synergy/synergyc.exe -f --no-tray  --name win --crypto-mode gcm --crypto-pass YOURCRYPTOPASSWORD --ipc --stop-on-desk-switch YourOSXServerFQDNorIP:24800

I have no idea what -f, --ipc, or --stop-on-desk-switch do. They were there by default and I can't find any documentation about them.

== Known issues ==

* I'm getting some spill over while click and dragging on my Windows client.
* While the UAC dialog is open or a program opened with UAC privs is running I'm unable to use the Windows client.
* Opens a terminal window when you log in.
