Using a Mac OS X 10.6.8 server with synergys 1.4.12 and a Windows 7 SP1 client with synergyc.exe 1.4.12

== OS X Server ==
Create a config file ~/Library/Synergy/synergy.conf (or where ever) with the following contents:
<pre>
section: screens
	win:
		alt = super
		super = alt
		halfDuplexCapsLock = false
		halfDuplexNumLock = false
		halfDuplexScrollLock = false
		xtestIsXineramaUnaware = false
		switchCorners = none +top-right +bottom-right 
		switchCornerSize = 0
	osx:
		halfDuplexCapsLock = false
		halfDuplexNumLock = false
		halfDuplexScrollLock = false
		xtestIsXineramaUnaware = false
		switchCorners = none 
		switchCornerSize = 0
end

section: aliases
end

section: links
	win:
		right = osx
	osx:
		left = win
end

section: options
	relativeMouseMoves = false
	screenSaverSync = true
	win32KeepForeground = false
	switchCorners = none +top-left +bottom-left 
	switchCornerSize = 32
end
</pre>

Create a file ~/bin/initsynergy.command with the following contents:
 #!/bin/bash
 
 # Hides tray icon. set to 0 to have it show again.
 defaults write /Applications/Synergy.app/Contents/Info LSUIElement 1
 
 /Applications/Synergy.app/Contents/MacOS/synergys --crypto-pass YOURCRYPTOPASSWORD --crypto-mode gcm --config ~/Library/Synergy/synergy.conf -n osx -l /var/log/synergy.log

Make sure you:
 sudo touch /var/log/synergy.log
 sudo chown YOUROSXUSERNAME /var/log/synergy.log

Add ~/bin/initsynergy.command to your account's Login Items in System Preferences -> Accounts -> Login Items

== Windows 7 ==
Install the client as a service. And go through the normal setup procedure. In my case I found that the crypto password I entered in the setup wizard was not used in the registry entry to double check that setting here:
 HKLM\SOFTWARE\Synergy\Command = C:/Program Files/Synergy/synergyc.exe -f --no-tray  --name win --crypto-mode gcm --crypto-pass YOURCRYPTOPASSWORD --ipc --stop-on-desk-switch YourOSXServerFQDNorIP:24800

I have no idea what -f, --ipc, or --stop-on-desk-switch do. They were there by default and I can't find any documentation about them.

== Known issues ==

* I'm getting some spill over while click and dragging on my Windows client.
* While the UAC dialog is open or a program opened with UAC privs is running I'm unable to use the Windows client.
* Opens a terminal window when you log in.
