==Intro==

Synergy lets you easily share your mouse and keyboard between multiple computers on your desk. It is Free and Open Source. Just move your mouse off the edge of one computer’s screen onto another. You can even share all of your clipboards. All you need is a network connection. Synergy is cross-platform, it works on Windows, Mac OS X, and Linux.

This user guide is useful for setting up Synergy. For answers to common problems, please see the [[User FAQ]]. This user guide is written for Synergy version 1.7.x, although most of the content is applicable to Synergy 1.4.x and above. Please upgrade if you are using an older version, most issues are fixed in later versions. To ﬁnd your version, click the ''Help'' menu --> ''About'' or ''About Synergy''.

More information and download links can be found at [http://synergy-project.org the Synergy website].

==Install==

Once you have downloaded the latest version of Synergy from our downloads page, follow the instructions below.

===Windows===
To install Synergy on Windows, follow these steps:
# double-click the downloaded installer
# click ''I Agree'' to agree to the license
# you can choose an install location, but we recommend you use the default
# click ''Install'' to begin the installation
# once finished, click ''Close'' to ﬁnish the installation

If this is your ﬁrst installation, the setup wizard should appear when you ﬁrst run Synergy. The wizard may also appear if we've changed something or added a new feature. Note that on Windows the wizard may have started behind another window. Once you have installed Synergy on all of your machines, skip to the [[User Guide#Configure|Configure]] section of this guide.

===Mac OS X===
To install Synergy on Mac OS X, follow these steps:
# open the .dmg ﬁle you downloaded
# drag the Synergy app into the Applications shortcut in the same window
# if prompted, click ''Replace''
# open your ''Applications'' folder
# find the new Synergy app and double-click

If this is your ﬁrst installation, the setup wizard should appear when you ﬁrst run Synergy. The wizard may also appear if we've changed something or added a new feature. Once you have installed Synergy on all of your machines, skip to the [[User Guide#Configure|Configure]] section of this guide.

===Linux===
To install Synergy on Linux, follow these steps:
# double-click the .deb or .rpm ﬁle.
# follow any on-screen install instructions for your distro
# once complete, you can ﬁnd the Synergy program in ''Accessories''

If this is your first installation, the setup wizard should appear when you ﬁrst run Synergy. The wizard may also appear if we've changed something or added a new feature. Once you have installed Synergy on all of your machines, skip to the [[User_Guide#Configure|Configure]] section of this guide.

==Configure==

===The Wizard===
The wizard is designed to be easy enough to understand without reading a user guide.

The wizard will not fully conﬁgure Synergy. You can learn how to conﬁgure Synergy by reading the remainder of this section.

===Configure a Server===

The server computer will share its keyboard and mouse with clients. It needs to know about all clients that will connect to it. To tell the server about these clients, click ''Configure Server''.

* To add a new client, drag a new monitor icon onto the grid from the upper right.
* To remove a client, drag the icon to the trash can in the upper left.
* To move a client, drag the existing icon to another cell.
* If you drag an icon on top of another, they will switch places.
'''Note:''' This tool imposes a 5x3 limit of screens, though it is possible to have more screens
by editing the [[User Guide#Text_Config|configuration file]] manually.

Once you have added a client to your grid, it will have the name ''Unnamed''. Double-click the icon to change its name to the name of your client.

You must use the client name that Synergy shows on the client. This can be found by looking at the main window of the Synergy application running on your client. The line labeled ''Screen Name'' under the ''Client'' section is where you find the name that your computer calls itself.

Once you have entered the client name, click ''OK'' to return to the grid. Repeat this process for each client you wish to add. Once you have added all clients, click ''OK'' to return to the main window.

Now you need to click ''Apply'' to activate the conﬁguration. If the ''Apply'' button is disabled, click ''Start''.

At this point you should note the ''IP Addresses'' line at the top of the main Synergy window. You will use one of the IP addresses listed here on each client computer to connect it to the server.

'''Note:''' A Synergy installation will have a default port number set for connecting (client) or listening (server). The server port on the Synergy server must not be blocked by a firewall (see the [[User Guide#Troubleshooting|Troubleshooting]] section). Make sure the port that the Synergy server is using allows incoming connections and that it is the same port number listed in the Synergy client (see [[User Guide#Configure_a_Client|Configure a Client]]).

===Configure a Client===
Once you've conﬁgured your Server, you need to connect each Client to the server. Assuming you selected ''Client'' during the wizard, the Client option should be checked on the main window. In the ''Server IP'' field, enter the IP address of the server. This will be the one from the Server's ''Synergy'' screen, in the ''IP Addresses'' field.
'''Note:''' This field will also accept a hostname if you have DNS conﬁgured on your local network (most users do not).

Click Apply or Start.

'''Note:''' The port number on the Synergy client must be set to the same number as the port number on the Synergy server. You may check this by going to ''Edit'' --> ''Settings'' (Win/Linux) or ''Synergy'' --> ''Preferences'' (Mac) to display the port number that Synergy will use. The default is 24800.

==Startup on Boot==
When Synergy starts during a computer's bootup process, it can then be used to log in to a client using the server's keyboard and mouse. This is currently only possible on Windows. We have not found a good way to do this on Mac and Linux systems. The closest we can get is to set up Synergy as a login item, and then have your user auto-login to OS X or Linux.

==Troubleshooting==

====My Client and Server both state they are "connected" but my mouse does not leave the screen====
Is your ''Scroll Lock'' key activated? This is useful for when playing video games or other full screen applications. The Scroll Lock key can be used to prevent the mouse switching input to another screen. Users that don't have a Scroll Lock key can re-assign the lock key in the Synergy GUI at ''Conﬁgure Server'' --> ''Hotkeys'' tab.

===Why is the mouse over-sensitive in games on the client?===
To solve this you need to do two things.
First, enable relative mouse movements on the server:
# In the Synergy GUI click ''Conﬁgure Server''
# Click the ''Advanced server settings'' tab
# Tick the ''Use relative mouse moves'' checkbox
# Click ''OK''
If this doesn't work, you can try to lock the mouse to your client screen by pressing the ''Scroll Lock'' key. Press it again to unlock.

===Why do certain programs stop me from moving the mouse off screen?===
This usually occurs in Windows Vista and above, and is due to UAC in Windows. The solution to this is to run Synergy in ''Elevated'' mode (this can be selected on the Settings page, under the Edit menu). Note that running Synergy in Elevated mode carries potential trade-offs with things like clipboard and file sharing functionality.

===How can I send developers my Synergy log content?===
It's easy to send us your log content so that we can help debug an issue. First, turn up the logging level (for most cases) to at least ''Debug''. In the Synergy GUI, go to ''Edit'' --> ''Settings'' --> ''Logging''. In ''Logging level:'' choose ''Debug'' and click ''OK''. Then, click ''Apply'', or if using 1.4.12 or older you may need to click ''Stop'' and then ''Start'' if using Desktop Mode.

In the ''Log'' output area, you can ''Select All'' highlight the log content to copy the entire log. However, for most troubleshooting the log content we need is just the lines from the time period of the issue (Synergy disconnect, failure to copy from remote clipboard...). You can paste your results on [http://pastebin.com/ Pastebin] and send us the link, or if just a few dozen lines or less simply copy the content into your email, Google Group message, or forum post.

===Where do I go for more troubleshooting?===
There is some additional troubleshooting in the [[User FAQ]].